---
layout: blog
title: Milestone 0.8 update
author: dnschnur
---

We've officially finished the project's migration to Github, with the last of our wiki
pages migrated to our [Github wiki](https://github.com/flot/flot/wiki).  This was a long
process, but it has set us up well for all our upcoming development.

This means that we can finally focus on the long-awaited Flot 0.8 release!  We've
assembled an official [0.8 milestone](https://github.com/flot/flot/issues?milestone=1) to
identify the issues that need to be addressed and track our progress towards the release.

Because we'd like to get something into your hands soon, we obviously couldn't include
everything for this milestone.  If your favorite issue didn't make it in, don't worry;
you'll notice that there's already a 0.9 milestone where we're starting to gather some of
the issues that were important, but couldn't quite make it into 0.8.  The broad areas that
we're focusing on for this release are:

 - Finalizing canvas text support and moving it to a plug-in

 - Finalizing time-zone support

 - Ensuring compatibility with jQuery 1.8 and all supported browsers

 - Improving documentation and examples

As part of the last point, [JÃ¼rgen Marsch](https://github.com/jumjum123) has created some
cool Youtube videos that provide a more accessible introduction to the library; these will
appear soon in a new docs section of the site, with links to the API and other resources.

Please take a look at the milestone's open issues, and consider contributing a little time
to solve one.  There are only 47 open issues, so it doesn't take much work to make a big
contribution to this release.  As soon as all issues are closed we'll move into beta, with
a final release not long after.

In other news, I had the opportunity to attend the first [jQuery DeveloperSummit]
(http://events.jquery.org/2012/developer-summit/), held at the AOL campus just outside
Washington DC.  I met a ton of great people, including several members of the core jQuery
and jQuery UI teams, and had the opportunity to work on jQuery's new plug-ins site.  It
was a fantastic experience, and I'm excited to carry what I learned - particularly with
respect to our own growing library of plug-ins - over to Flot.

Finally, we've added an [RSS feed](http://flotcharts.org/blog/feed.xml) for this blog,
making it easier to follow our progress.
